Harry Potter – Harry Potter, also dubbed as ‘The Boy who Lived’ is the protagonist of this book. He is a bespectacled boy with untidy hair and a lanky build. He has a scar shaped like lightning on his forehead. He loses his parents at a very early age when the dark wizard Lord Voldemort attacks them at their house. Harry attends Hogwarts school to learn magic and befriends Ron, Hermione, Hagrid, and several others who make him feel at home. He is a very brave and inquisitive eleven-year-old boy. He is a natural in the game of Quidditch and helps his team win their Quidditch matches. He will stop at nothing till he finds out about the Philosopher’s Stone and the people trying to steal it.
Ronald Weasley – Ronald Weasley is Harry Potter’s best friend. They meet on their way to Hogwarts and instantly hit it off. Tall and gangling, Ron has bright red hair like all his other siblings. Ron is brought up in a wizarding household and therefore knows a lot about the magical world when Harry first meets him. Ron is very fond of eating and is also an expert in the game of Wizard Chess. Ron is the youngest brother among the six and is constantly overshadowed by the achievements of the elder brothers. He is, therefore, very keen to make a good impression and wants to become both a Quidditch captain and a Head Boy.
Hermione Granger – Hermione Granger is a classmate of Harry and Ron. She is described as a girl with bushy hair and front teeth pointing slightly outward than usual. She is initially very keen to prove herself as a knowledgeable person. She was brought up by muggle parents. She becomes friends with Harry and Ron after the incident in the girls’ lavatory, where they encounter a mountain troll. She is one of the most resourceful members of the trio, constantly giving suggestions or actively pursuing leads by researching in the library. She helps Harry carry the dragon Norbert up the Astronomy tower and is caught with Harry when they are returning from the tower. They are forced to do detention in the Forbidden Forest.
Professor Dumbledore – Professor Albus Dumbledore is the headmaster of Hogwarts and probably the most accomplished living wizard of his time. He is described as a tall and lean man with waist-length hair and a beard. He is the only wizard whom Lord Voldemort fears. Dumbledore is the one who ensures Harry’s safety after his parents’ death. After Harry comes to Hogwarts, Dumbledore constantly mentors him in peculiar ways and gives him essential advice that eventually helps Harry thwart Lord Voldemort from stealing the Philosopher’s Stone. Professor Dumbledore, although considered extremely intelligent, is also very eccentric, as several students point out to Harry. Dumbledore’s presence always assures Harry that he is safe from any danger.
Lord Voldemort – Lord Voldemort is a dark wizard who killed Harry’s parents. He also tried to kill Harry when the latter was a one-year-old boy but failed miserably. He is never addressed by name, as the entire wizarding world fears him deeply, even after his disappearance. Except for Dumbledore, and eventually Harry, everyone refers to him as ‘You Know Who’. During his reign, he was responsible for several killings, disappearances, and other fearful stories that still plague the wizarding world. He possesses Professor Quirrell to try and get the Philosopher’s Stone to return to his bodily form but fails eventually.
Rubeus Hagrid – Rubeus Hagrid is the gamekeeper and Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts. He appears to be about twelve feet tall when Harry meets him. He is the first person that Harry properly meets from the wizarding world in the book. Hagrid ‘rescues’ Harry from the Dursleys and helps Harry with all his school supplies and other equipment. Hagrid is fascinated by magical creatures, irrespective of how dangerous they are. He tries to tame a dragon he names Norbert as his pet. He also supervises Harry and Hermione’s detention as they search for an injured unicorn in the Forbidden Forest. Harry, Ron, and Hermione constantly question Hagrid about the three-headed dog guarding something in the third-floor corridor after he lets slip that it’s he who placed the dog there on Dumbledore’s orders.
Draco Malfoy – Draco Malfoy is a blond-haired boy in the same year as Harry, whom Harry first meets at Madam Malkin’s shop. Draco is very proud and dismissive of anything he doesn’t consider important. Harry refuses to shake hands with him when Draco extends an invitation for friendship. Draco is in Slytherin’s house and constantly bullies students from Gryffindor, specifically Neville Longbottom. Draco also gets Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville in trouble when he challenges Harry to a duel at midnight. Draco is always accompanied by his two other friends, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle.
Professor McGonagall – Minerva McGonagall is a teacher and Deputy Headmistress at Hogwarts. She is the teacher in charge of Gryffindor’s house. She teaches Transfiguration. She is also a licensed animagus and can transform herself into a tabby cat at will. She is first seen in the book as a cat observing Uncle Vernon and his family in Privet Drive before Dumbledore entrusts them with Harry’s care. Professor McGonagall is a strict witch, and she doesn’t tolerate indiscipline or any rule-breaking. However, she is very kind to Harry and buys him his first broomstick for the Quidditch match she recruits him to play in. She is also the one who awards detention to Harry, Hermione, Draco, and Neville when they are caught out of bed at night.
Professor Snape – Severus Snape is a teacher at Hogwarts. He teaches Potions. He has greasy hair and almost always wears a cloak with a cape. He is described as looking like an ‘overgrown bat.’ Harry first sees him at the school feast, and Harry’s scar immediately begins to hurt. Harry has a hunch that Snape is a sinister person and is up to something. He also gets the feeling that Snape hates him for some reason. It turns out to be true.Snape constantly torments Harry and keeps belittling him throughout the school year. He also picks on Neville Longbottom and sometimes Ron and Hermione. He is also the teacher in charge of the Slytherin house, and he constantly favors Draco and other Slytherins.
Professor Quirrell – Professor Quirinus Quirrell is a teacher at Hogwarts. He teaches Defense Against the Dark Arts. Harry first meets him at the Leaky Cauldron. Professor Quirrell is described as a very nervous and constantly stuttering wizard who had some bad experiences with vampires during his trip to Albania. He wears a turban that smells funny, and many students posit that he hides garlic in the turban to ward off vampires. Professor Quirrell is the one who informs the headmaster of the troll in the dungeons. Harry thinks that Professor Snape bullies Professor Quirrell to get something out of him, which turns out to be false at the end of the book. 
Neville Longbottom – Neville Longbottom is a round-faced and constantly scared boy who is in Harry’s class. Harry and Ron first meet him when Hermione accompanies Neville in search of his toad Trevor and enters Harry and Ron’s compartment to search for it. Neville is slightly clumsy and has a difficult time with a lot of everyday activities. His grandmother sends him a ‘Remembrall’ to help him remember if he’s forgotten something. He is constantly bullied by Draco Malfoy and other Slytherins. Neville falls from his broom during their first flying lessons. Towards the end of the book, however, Neville shows some signs of bravery when he fights Draco for making fun of him and also stands up to Harry, Ron and Hermione when they try to break the school rules.
Vernon Dursley – Vernon Dursley is Harry’s uncle. He is married to Harry’s mother’s sister, Aunt Petunia. Vernon Dursley works at a drill-making company called Grunnings. Vernon is very stern and borderline abusive to Harry and is a man with very little imagination beyond his close-minded view of everything around him. He is particularly petrified by any mention of Harry’s parents or the word ‘magic.’ He is also very displeased when he sees unnatural clothing styles or things that aren’t common, like people wearing cloaks or a cat reading a map respectively. Vernon is, however, very affectionate to his son Dudley and is constantly trying to win his approval by getting him expensive gifts, buying him delicious food, and taking him to fun places.
Aunt Petunia – Petunia Dursley is Harry’s aunt. She is married to Vernon Dursley. Aunt Petunia is described as a woman with an impeccable requirement for neatness around the house and also as a nosy woman who cranes her neck constantly to gather information about her neighbors. She too, like her husband Vernon, is constantly mean to Harry and is extremely and unnaturally kind to her son Dudley. She pampers Dudley regularly with all his favorite dishes and allows him to watch television and play video games all the time. She doesn’t talk about Harry’s parents at all, and any mention of her sister Lily is very unwelcome. 
Dudley Dursley – Dudley Dursley is the son of Vernon and Petunia. Dudley is Harry’s cousin. Dudley constantly bullies his cousin Harry at every chance he gets. He is overly pampered by his parents, and his demands are almost always met without question. He throws tantrums whenever he doesn’t get what he wants, and he is constantly showered with kisses and affection from his parents. He has several friends in school, among whom Piers Polkiss is probably his best friend. Dudley and his friends are always trying to bully several kids in the school. However, Dudley is not very fast physically or mentally, so Harry is quite accomplished in dodging most of Dudley’s bullying attempts.
The Boa Constrictor – The Boa Constrictor is seen in the zoo that Harry visits with Dudley, his parents, and his friend Piers Polkiss. It is of Brazilian descent but was bred in the zoo. As the snake is lazily sleeping in its cage, Dudley is furious and wants it to move. When Harry talks to the snake, the snake responds with a wink. Dudley then pushes Harry out of the way, but Harry accidentally and unbeknownst to him, performs magic, and the Boa Constrictor is set free. It thanks Harry on its way out.
Hedwig – Hedwig is Harry’s snowy white owl, gifted by Hagrid as a birthday present when they buy school supplies in Diagon Alley. Harry names her Hedwig after a name he comes across in one of his textbooks. Hedwig is a proud yet affectionate pet who sometimes gets angry when Harry doesn’t acknowledge her but is otherwise very nice and constantly shows her love to him.
Mr. Ollivander – Garrick Ollivander is the shopkeeper at Ollivander’s and a descendant of a long line of wandmakers with the same surname. He is a wand maker with great renown, and most Hogwarts students supposedly purchase wands from him. Harry has a slightly confusing opinion of Mr. Ollivander as he has an equally confusing session of picking wands. Mr. Ollivander constantly reminds Harry that the wand chooses the wizard, and when Harry finally picks up a wand, Mr. Ollivander reveals that his wand is the ‘brother’ of the wand that chose Lord Voldemort as they both have the feathers of the same phoenix in their core. 
James Potter – James Potter is Harry’s father and the husband of Lily Evans. He was killed by Lord Voldemort when he tried to protect Harry from Voldemort. James Potter later appears in the Mirror of Erised as Harry sees his family, including James, his wife Lily, and their ancestors. James Potter looks very similar to Harry, with untidy long hair and a pair of glasses. He used to play Quidditch too in his school days and was quite popular for it. James Potter was also the owner of an invisibility cloak that Harry receives from an unknown person during Christmas, which is later found to be Dumbledore. 
Lily Potter – Lily Potter is Harry’s mother, wife of James Potter, and sister of Petunia Dursley. She too was killed by Lord Voldemort when she shielded Harry from the killing curse that Voldemort had intended for Harry. Lily Potter appears in the Mirror of Erised later when Harry sits in front of it. Harry’s eyes are exactly like his mother’s, green in color. Harry is overjoyed when he receives a photo album put together by Hagrid, which contains pictures of Lily and James.
Fred and George Weasley – Fred and George Weasley are identical twins and are the brothers of Ronald Weasley. They are popular for their jokes and troublemaking. They are slightly shorter and stockier than Ron but share the same bright red hair as Ron. Harry first sees them on the platform at King’s Cross Station, where they confuse their mother into thinking that she can’t tell them apart. Fred and George also console Ginny for not being able to join Hogwarts yet, and further suggest that they’ll send her a toilet seat from school. They eventually end up giving Harry a toilet seat in the hospital wing as a reward for thwarting Voldemort. They are both beaters in the Gryffindor Quidditch team and are very friendly to Harry. They even circle around below Harry when his broom malfunctions during the Quidditch match, hoping to catch him if he falls.
Molly Weasley – Molly Weasley is the mother of Ronald Weasley and the other Weasley brothers – the twins Fred and George and Percy. She is a very kind woman and is prompt to help Harry find platform nine and three-quarters. She also advises Fred and George against pestering Harry about his memory of Voldemort. She also sends Harry some fudge and a hand-knit sweater for Christmas, which makes Harry very happy.
Percy Weasley – Percy Weasley is the elder brother of Ron, Fred, and George. He is a prefect of Gryffindor’s house and receives an owl named Hermes as a gift. His old pet Scabbers is then given to Ron as a pet. Percy is a fifth-year student.
Sorting Hat – The Sorting Hat is an almost 800-year-old magical artifact as old as the school itself, which is used for sorting first-year students into their respective houses. It is a pointy hat that looks rather old and tattered. It was magically created by the four founders of Hogwarts, who each conveyed their requirements for a student to be picked into their houses to the hat. The hat is capable of singing verses and is sometimes very witty, occasionally conversing with students as they wear it on top of their heads. For instance, when Harry wears the hat, it claims that Slytherin could be a suitable choice for him.
Mr. Filch – Mr. Argus Filch is a caretaker at Hogwarts who is known for being angry at the kids most of the time. He constantly inspects the corridors and the rest of the castle, especially at night with his beloved pet cat Mrs. Norris. He almost catches Harry once when Harry goes to the restricted section of the library looking for books on Nicolas Flamel while wearing his invisibility cloak. 
Nicolas Flamel – Nicolas Flamel is an alchemist and a friend of Albus Dumbledore who is famous for creating the Philosopher’s Stone which can be used to make the Elixir of Life. Harry first encounters his name in the collecting card he gets with a Chocolate Frog on the Hogwarts Express. He later forgets it and is reminded of the name when Hagrid, by mistake, informs Harry, Ron, and Hermione that the three-headed dog is guarding something that has to do with Nicolas Flamel. Eventually, it is said that Nicolas Flamel is 665 years old and had requested Dumbledore to guard the Philosopher’s Stone as he was afraid that somebody might steal it.
Oliver Wood – Oliver Wood is the captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. He is first seen when Professor McGonagall takes Harry to him and makes him the new seeker of the team. Wood then introduces the game of Quidditch to Harry and runs him through the rules of the game. He is also very desperate to win the Quidditch Cup and the House Championship, as Slytherin has been winning it for quite some time.
Lee Jordan – Lee Jordan is the best friend of Fred Weasley and George Weasley. He is in Gryffindor’s house too and is a very cheerful boy and similar in several respects to the twins. He is also assigned with the task of commentary for the Quidditch matches, where he pokes fun at how outrageous Slytherin players are when they cheat or bend the rules of the game.
Seamus Finnigan – Seamus Finnigan is Harry’s classmate and also his roommate in the Gryffindor dormitory. His parents are Irish, and he is heard telling his friends that his mother is a witch and his father, a muggle, which makes him a wizard with half-blood ancestry. He is best friends with Dean Thomas. He lends his chess pieces to Harry before he leaves home for Christmas and also sets his feather on fire in one of his Charms classes while practicing a levitation charm.
Vincent Crabbe – Vincent Crabbe is one of the lackeys of Draco Malfoy. He constantly follows Draco along with their other friend, Goyle, and they are usually punching their fists and flexing their muscles. 
Gregory Goyle – Gregory Goyle is another of the lackeys that Draco is accompanied by most of the time. Goyle is bitten by Scabbers, Ron’s pet rat in the Hogwarts Express, when they try to ‘recruit’ Harry into their circle and are rejected by Harry.
Charlie Weasley – Charlie Weasley is the second eldest brother of Ron. When he studied at Hogwarts, he was a popular student, a prefect, and the captain of the Quidditch team. He works in Romania with dragons. When Hagrid’s dragon Norbert becomes difficult to manage, Ron, Hermione, and Harry decide to send Norbert to Charlie through his friends, who even get a harness to transport Norbert safely.
Madam Hooch – Madam Rolanda Hooch is the flying instructor at Hogwarts. She had short spiky grey hair and yellow hawk-like eyes. She is first seen when Harry and his classmates take flying lessons, and she is the instructor. She is a stern and strict witch, but when Neville falls from his broom, she is kind to him and takes him to the hospital wing herself. She also referees the first Quidditch match that Harry plays.
Nearly Headless Nick – Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, also known as Nearly Headless Nick, is the house ghost of Gryffindor. He prefers being called Sir Nicholas but has a hard time convincing people not to call him Nearly Headless Nick. He is first seen at the school feast, where he displays his head which was cut off incompletely from his neck, when asked about his name.
The Bloody Baron – The Bloody Baron is the ghost of Slytherin’s house. He is one of the only beings Peeves the Poltergeist fears. He is also said to be unbearable by Nearly Headless Nick, as Slytherin house has been winning the House Cup for the past six years.
The Fat Lady – The woman in the portrait at the opening of the common room of Gryffindor. She guards the door and only lets in someone if they know the password. She is first seen when Percy Weasley says the password “Caput Draconis” to let the first-year Gryffindors enter. She suspiciously asks if there’s anyone around when Harry once decides to wear his invisibility cloak and stroll around.
Fang – Fang is Hagrid’s boarhound. He was very faithful to Hagrid and accompanies him to the Forbidden Forest. He is very welcoming of guests that come to Hagrid’s house as well. Draco chooses to go with Fang into the Forbidden Forest during their detention, but Hagrid claims that Fang is a cowardly dog.
Fluffy – Fluffy is a three-headed magical dog that Hagrid lends to Professor Dumbledore to protect the Philosopher’s Stone. Fluffy first appears in the book when Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville accidentally enter the restricted third-floor corridor. Hagrid later accidentally lets slip that Fluffy can be easily calmed by playing music. 
Griphook – Griphook is a goblin in the Gringotts bank. Griphook accompanies Hagrid and Harry to their respective vaults when Harry visits Gringotts for the first time.
Madam Malkin – Madam Malkin owns the eponymous shop which sells robes for all occasions. Madam Malkin’s shop is where Harry first sees Draco Malfoy.
Lavender Brown – Lavender Brown is a girl who is sorted into Gryffindor’s house and is in the same year as Harry. She shares her room with Hermione and Parvati Patil.
Cornelius Fudge – Cornelius Fudge is the Minister of Magic. He constantly asks Dumbledore for advice on matters.
Parvati and Padma Patil – Padma Patil and Parvati Patil are identical twins who are in the same year as Harry at Hogwarts. Padma Patil is sorted into Ravenclaw house, while Parvati is a Gryffindor and shares her room with Hermione and Lavender.
Angelina Johnson – Angelina Johnson is a Chaser in the Gryffindor Quidditch team. She is in the same year as Fred and George.
Katie Bell – Katie Bell is a member of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. She plays as a Chaser alongside Angelina Johnson and Alicia Spinnet.
Madam Pomfrey – Madam Poppy Pomfrey is the Head Nurse at the Hospital Wing in Hogwarts. She tends to Harry after his thwarting of Lord Voldemort, and she also takes care of Ron when he is bitten by Norbert, and the infection spreads severely. Madam Pomfrey is also mentioned by Dumbledore when he admits he blushed a lot when she complimented his earmuffs.
Madam Pince – Madam Irma Pince is the Librarian at Hogwarts. She is particularly strict about lending prized books from the library’s collection to students.
Marcus Flint – Marcus Flint is the captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team. He plays as a Chaser and is reprimanded with a foul during the game.
Norbert – Norbert is a Norwegian Ridgeback, which is a type of dragon. He hatches out of the egg that a stranger offered to Hagrid at a bar. Hagrid deeply loves Norbert and wants to keep him. He bites Ron, and eventually, Harry, Hermione and Ron convince Hagrid to part with him. With the help of Ron’s brother Charlie’s friends, Norbert is sent to Romania for Charlie to take care of.
Firenze – Firenze is one of the centaurs living in the Forbidden Forest. He is said to have blonde hair and blue eyes. He saves Harry from the cloaked figure, which was drinking unicorn blood in the forest, despite protests from the other centaurs. He advises Harry to be careful, and he reveals the cloaked figure’s identity as Lord Voldemort and claims that Voldemort is trying to steal the Philosopher’s Stone.
Ronan – Ronan is another centaur living in the Forbidden forest. He has red hair and a chestnut-colored body. He is skeptical about interacting with wizards and helping them in their cause but is defensive of Firenze when Bane questions Firenze.
Bane – Bane is a bigger, stronger-looking centaur with black hair and a black body. He is enraged at Firenze for helping Harry and also for carrying Harry on his back like a horse.
Alicia Spinnet – Alicia Spinnet is a Gryffindor student and a member of the Quidditch team. She plays as a chaser alongside Angelina Johnson and Katie Bell.
Terence Higgs – Terence Higgs is the seeker of the Slytherin Quidditch team. He and Harry fly neck to neck in the final moments of the Quidditch match before Harry dives spectacularly and almost swallows the Golden Snitch.
Arabella Figg – Mrs. Arabella Figg is a neighbor of the Dursleys and stays in Little Whinging. Whenever the Dursleys go out together, they leave Harry with Mrs. Figg. She is a slightly old woman who stays alone with her cats. Her house smells like cabbages, and she constantly makes Harry look at pictures of her cats when he goes there.
Professor Flitwick – Professor Filius Flitwick is described as a wizard of short stature and as a squeaky-voiced professor. He teaches Charms in Hogwarts, and he is the head of Ravenclaw house. He is the professor who creates the obstacle of the winged keys on the way to the Philosopher’s Stone.
Professor Sprout – Professor Pomona Sprout teaches Herbology and is the head of the Hufflepuff house at Hogwarts. She is responsible for the Devil’s Snare on the way leading to the Philosopher’s Stone, that Hermione overcomes by mimicking sunlight.
Professor Binns – Professor Cuthbert Binns is a teacher at Hogwarts who teaches the History of Magic. He is in fact, a ghost. He is the only ghost who is a professor at Hogwarts. He used to teach when he was alive but continued to teach even after his death as a ghost. His classes are presented as boring and as something that most students do not pay much attention to.
Piers Polkiss – Piers Polkiss is a friend of Dudley Dursley and is described as being rat-faced. He is his accomplice of Dudley for most of his bullying crusades, and Piers usually holds back the hands of the victims being bullied by Dudley. Piers also accompanies the Dursleys to the zoo and is the one who claims to have seen Harry talking to the Boa Constrictor that escapes.
Millicent Bulstrode – Millicent Bulstrode is a first-year girl who is sorted into Slytherin house. 
Bill Weasley – Bill Weasley is the eldest of all the Weasley siblings. He used to be both a Head Boy and a prefect in his time at Hogwarts. Ron mentions him to Harry, and sounds like he feels overshadowed by his eldest sibling most because of his achievements.
Augusta Longbottom – Augusta Longbottom is Neville Longbottom’s grandmother, who is a stern witch and brought up Neville on her own. She seems slightly disappointed seeing Neville’s lack of significant magical talent.
Trevor – Trevor is Neville’s pet toad. Trevor is first mentioned when Hermione enters the train compartment with Harry and Ron looking for Trevor. Neville loses Trevor constantly and is searching for him more than once in the book.
Perenelle Flamel – Perenelle Flamel is the wife of the famous alchemist Nicolas Flamel. She stays with Nicola Flamel and is 658 years old at the time of the events of the book.
The Fat Friar – The Fat Friar is the house ghost of Hufflepuff house. He attends the beginning of term feast and hovers near the Hufflepuff table.
The Grey Lady – The Grey Lady is the house ghost of Ravenclaw house. She attends the beginning of term feast and hovers near the Ravenclaw table.
Dennis, Malcolm and Gordon – Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon are all the boys who are friends and accomplices of Dudley. They consider Dudley, their leader and help him bully other kids.
Tibbles, Snowy, Mr Paws and Tufty – Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty are all cats of Mrs. Figg. Harry remembers their names because Mrs. Figg always makes him look at their photographs when the Dursleys leave Harry at Mrs. Figg’s house.
Susan Bones – Susan Bones is a first-year student at Hogwarts who gets sorted into Hufflepuff house.
Algie Longbottom – Algie Longbottom is Neville’s great-uncle. He accidentally drops Neville from a height, but Neville manages to finally attain his magic and is unhurt. Algie is overjoyed with Neville’s display of long-awaited magic and gives him his pet toad, Trevor.
Peeves – Peeves is a poltergeist who is a constant troublemaker in Hogwarts. He keeps toppling items or throwing things at students passing through the corridors and angers Mr. Filch with his antics every chance he gets. He is only scared of the Bloody Baron, the Slytherin ghost.
Ginny Weasley – Ginny Weasley is the youngest of the Weasley siblings and the only girl child to her parents. She is first seen in the King’s Cross station, where she is constantly sad about not going to Hogwarts because she is not old enough. She is also very excited to see Harry Potter when he comes back with Ron after their first year at school.
Dean Thomas – Dean Thomas is a student in the same year as Harry and Ron. He is also in Gryffindor’s house and is good friends with Seamus Finnigan. He shares his dorm room with Harry, Ron, Seamus, and Neville.
Pansy Parkinson – Pansy Parkinson is a first-year student at Hogwarts. She is sorted into the house of Slytherin.
Justin Finch-Fletchley – Justin Finch-Fletchley is a first-year student at Hogwarts. He is sorted into the Hufflepuff house.
Gellert Grindelwald – Gellert Grindelwald is a dark wizard who terrorized wizardkind for a long time. He was finally defeated by Albus Dumbledore in a duel that took place in the year 1945.
Scabbers – Scabbers is Ron’s pet rat. Ron inherited this rat from Percy when Percy got Hermes, the owl on account of becoming a prefect. Scabbers attack Malfoy and his friends when they try to take Harry and Ron’s snacks.
Dedalus Diggle – Dedalus Diggle is one of the wizards that Harry encounters in the Leaky Cauldron when he goes with Hagrid there. It turns out that Harry had met Dedalus before too, when he had gone out with Aunt Petunia. Dedalus is overjoyed when he realizes that Harry remembers this short encounter. Dedalus Diggle is also mentioned at the beginning of the book when Professor McGonagall is outraged at the carelessness of celebrations erupting throughout. She says that the downpour of shooting stars near Kent is most likely Dedalus Diggle’s doing.
Tom – Tom is the owner and also the bartender of the pub named Leaky Cauldron, where most wizards pay a visit to or stay when they come to Diagon Alley.
Doris Crockford – Doris Crockford is another witch that Harry meets when he goes to the Leaky Cauldron. She is overjoyed to see him and shakes hands with him.
Marge Dursley – Marge Dursley is the sister of Vernon Dursley. She is mentioned in the book several times. First, when Vernon points out the gift by her to Dudley, and later when they consider leaving Harry with her, to which they conclude that she hates Harry and it would therefore be a bad idea. She is also said to be vacationing on the Isle of Wight, and through her letters, we find out that she is sick amidst her vacation.
Mrs. Norris – Mrs Norris is Mr Filch’s pet cat. She is seen parading in the hallways and corridors, and her presence is usually an indication that Mr Filch is close by. Harry encounters Mrs Norris several times during his escapades at night in the corridors.
Sirius Black – Sirius Black is a wizard who lends his flying motorcycle to Hagrid so that he can deliver Harry safely to Dumbledore. Hagrid gets Harry from the wreckage of his house to Privet Drive on this motorcycle.
Quentin Trimble – Quentin Trimble is the author of the first-year Defense Against the Dark Arts textbook titled “Dark Forces: A Guide for Self-Protection”
Arsenius Jigger – Arsenius Jigger is the author of the first-year Potions textbook titled “Magical Drafts and Potions.”
Phyllida Spore – Phyllida Spore is the author of the first-year Herbology textbook titled “One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi.”
Newt Scamander – Newt Scamander is the author of the first-year Care of Magical Creatures textbook titled “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.”
Miranda Goshawk – Miranda Goshawk is the author of the first-year textbook titled “The Standard Book of Spells (Grade I).”
Bathilda Bagshot – Bathilda Bagshot is the author of the first-year textbook titled “A History of Magic.”
Adalbert Waffling – Adalbert Waffling is the author of the first-year textbook titled “Magical Theory.
Emeric Switch – Emeric Switch is the author of the first-year transfiguration textbook titled “A Beginner’s Guide to Transfiguration.”